# Mathematical_sciences_project

Whilst video calling has always been popular, the COVID-19 pandemic has forced a major shift to virtual communication through video calling platforms, such as Zoom and Microsoft Teams, as opposed to face-to-face conversation. The benefit of video calling, as opposed to an audio call, is that you can still interpret some body language, however, there are still significantly fewer non-verbal cues compared to in-person interactions. This means that the participants must try to predict when gaps in the conversation will occur, in order to contribute to the discussion. However, there are always a number of delays associated with video calls, which can be grouped together to form the end-to-end video delay. This is defined as the time lag from when a video is generated by the sender device, till it is displayed on the receiver's device and is made up of delays from video capturing, encoding, transmission, decoding, and rendering \cite{Yu2014}. These delays can make it difficult to correctly predict the dialogue gaps, often leading to poor conversations, where people talk over each other simultaneously or where there are long pauses with no one speaking. 

Throughout the various lockdowns of 2020/21, video calling was done out of necessity; it was the closest possible alternative to an in-person interaction with colleagues and loved ones. However, with numerous companies deciding that remote working will still be an option for many after the pandemic, it appears that video calling will continue to form a significant proportion of peoples' social interactions. As a consequence of this, it is essential to understand how break downs in virtual conversations occur, in order to help facilitate the creation of strategies to mitigate them.

Motivated by the above problem, the aim of this paper is to produce a suitable model for virtual conversations and investigate its asymptotic dynamics, along with the impact that delays of different size has on the system. This will give us an insight into how virtual conversations flow and whether the structure of the conversation changes with delays. 

Please note, the code requires DDE-BIFTOOL to be downloaded prior to running.
